---
layout: post
title: "cfMesh"
date: 2026-04-12
---
## What is cfMesh? ##

There are many tools for generating mesh for OpenFOAM. One of them, that is often missed, is **cfMesh**.  

**cfMesh** is easier and faster than others. It generates meshes, for OpenFOAM model, from surface geometry files (e.g. STL files). It is capable of making hex-dominant mesh, polyhedral mesh, boundary layers (anisotropic) and local mesh refinement. 

There are two version of cfMesh, open-source version and commercial. cfMesh comes with OpenFOAM 2412 is open source code. Create Fields, from 2014, develops advanced features on top of *cfMesh* and sells it as a commercial meshing package [CF-Mesh+](https://cfmesh.com/). 

In this blog, we discuss open source *cfMesh* coming with OpenFOAM 2412. 

## How to Prepare Geometry ##

The geometry for *cfMesh* is a set of STL files. One needs to prepare them before using *cfMesh*. 

Many CAD programs can generate STL geometry file. There are some other program, such as *gmsh* or *paraview*, can also generate STL geometry file. 

*cfMesh* doesn't create patches for boundaries. The boundaries are from STL surface regions. For example, in a geometry STL file, e.g. geometry.stl, there are regions named *inlet*, *outlet* and *walls*, which can be used by *cfMesh* to specify boundaries.

## How to Build Mesh? ##

*cfMesh* needs to work in the following file structure. The geometry file is placed under the sub-folder *triSurface* under the folder *constant*.

A file *meshDict* is configured and saved under the folder *system*. This is crucial for specifying how mesh is generated. 

```
case/
├── system/
│   └── meshDict
├── constant/
│   └── triSurface/
│       └── geometry.stl
```
When *meshDict* and *geometry.stl* are prepared and placed, to generate mesh, the following is invoked from the case root folder to generate a hex-dominant mesh. 

```
$ cartersianMesh
```
## How to Write meshDict ##

To build a mesh, file *meshDict* is used to instruct the program on how to make a mesh. *meshDict* can be configured as simple as below. It is self-explanatory.  

```
surfaceFile "geometry.stl";

// Global cell size
maxCellSize 0.005;

// Keep cells inside geometry
keepCellsIntersectingBoundary 1;
```

## How to Specify Bounaries #

It is also simple to specify boundaries. An example is given below. 

```
// Boundary patch definitions
renameBoundary
{
    defaultName walls;

    patches
    {
        inlet
        {
            type patch;
            newName inlet;
        }

        walls
        {
            type wall;
            newName walls;
        }
    }
}
```

## How to Refine Mesh? ##

Following gives an example of how to make a local mesh refinement. The example shows how to refine a mesh to cell size 2mm within a box. The region can also be sphere, cylinder etc. 

```
localRefinement
{
    refinementBox
    {
        type box;
        centre (0 0 0.01);
        lengthX 0.02;
        lengthY 0.02;
        lengthZ 0.02;
        cellSize 0.002;
    }
}
```
In addition to refine mesh in a region. *cfMesh* can also do surface refinement and edge refinement. 

## How to Specify Boundary Layer ##

The example below shows how to specify boundary layer. Note the mesh is anisotropic. 

```
boundaryLayers
{
    walls
    {
        nLayers 3;
        thicknessRatio 1.2;
        maxFirstLayerThickness 0.001;
        allowDiscontinuity 1;
    }
}
```
## Summary ##

cfMesh is easier and faster meshing toolfor generating *OpenFOAM* mesh. It is an open-source code and is available with OpenFOAM 2412. It is a potentional CFD automation tool. *cfMesh* can generate hex-dominant and polyhedral mesh.  

